 ╔═════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
 ║ Microservices provide the following benefits to developers: ║
 ╚═════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝
  Faster compilation and build time: Faster build and compilation time may play a key role in
  speeding up all development processes.

Faster deployments, lower deployable size: When each part of the system is deployed separately,
  the deployable size can get so significantly smaller that individual deployments can take just a
  fraction of the time compared to monolithic applications.

Custom deployment cadence: The microservice model solves the problem of following a custom
  deployment schedule. Each service can be deployed independently and follow its own schedule.

Custom deployment monitoring: Some services can perform more critical roles in the system
  than others and may require more fine-grained monitoring and extra checks.

Independent and configurable automated testing: Services may be configured to perform
  different automated tests as a part of the build and deployment pipeline. Additionally, the scope

of checks can be reduced for individual microservices, that is, we don't need to perform tests for
  the entire application, which may take longer.

Cross-language support: It is no longer required to run an application as a single executable,
  so it is possible to implement different parts of the system using different technologies, finding
  the best fit for each problem.

Simpler APIs: Fine-grained APIs are one of the key aspects of microservice development and
  having clear and efficient APIs helps to enforce the right composition of the system.

Horizontal scaling: Microservices are easier and often cheaper to scale horizontally. Monolithic
  applications are usually resource-heavy and running them on numerous instances could be
  quite expensive due to high hardware requirements. Microservices, however, can be scaled
  independently. So, if a particular part of the system requires running on hundreds or thousands
  of servers, other parts don't need to follow the same requirements.

Hardware flexibility: Splitting an application often means reducing the hardware requirements
  for most parts of the system. It provides more flexibility in choosing the hardware or cloud
  providers to execute applications.

Fault isolation: Service decoupling provides an efficient safety mechanism to prevent major
  issues on partial system failures.
  Understandability: Services are easier to understand and maintain due to lower code base sizes.
  Cost optimization: Running most application components on lower-grade instances compared
  to expensive high-resource monolithic instances may result in significant cost savings for the company.

Distributed development: Removing the coupling between the components helps achieve more
  independence in code development, which can play an important role in distributed teams.
  Ease of refactoring: In general, it is much easier to perform refactoring for microservices due
  to the lower scope of changes and independent release and testing processes, which helps detect
  possible issues and reduce the scope of failures.
  
Technological freedom: With microservice architecture, it is much easier to switch to new
  technologies given that each service is smaller in size and is structurally independent of the
  others. This can play a key role in companies with an open and experimental development culture, 
  helping find the right solutions for particular problems and keep their technological stack up to date.

Independent decision-making: Developers are free to choose programming languages,
  libraries, and tools that fit their needs the best. This does not, however, imply that there should
  be no standardization, but it is often highly beneficial to achieve a certain degree of freedom
  for distributed decision-making.
    
Removing unnecessary dependencies: It is easy to miss detecting unwanted dependencies
  between the components of a monolithic application given the tighter coupling of the components.
  Microservice architecture helps you notice unwanted dependencies between components and
  restricts the use of certain services to particular parts of the application.


 ╔════════════════════════════════╗
 ║ Common issues of microservices ║
 ╚════════════════════════════════╝

Higher resource overhead: When an application consists of multiple components, instead of
  sharing the same process space, there is a need to communicate between the components that
  involve higher network use. This puts more load on the entire system and increases traffic, latency,
  and I/O usage. In addition, the total CPU and RAM are also higher due to the extra overhead of
  running each component separately.

Debugging difficulty: Troubleshooting and debugging are often more difficult when you deal
  with multiple services. For example, if multiple services process a request that fails, a developer
  needs to access the logs of multiple services in order to understand what caused the failure.

Integration testing: Separating a system requires building a large set of integration tests and
  other automated checks that would monitor the compatibility and availability of each component.

Consistency and transactions: In microservice applications, the data is often scattered across the
  system. While this helps to separate the independent parts of the application, it makes it harder
  to do transactional and atomic changes in the system.

Divergence: Different services may use different versions of libraries, which may include
  incompatible or outdated ones. Divergence makes it harder to perform system upgrades and
  resolve various issues, including software vulnerability fixes.

Tech debt addressability: It is much harder to address tech debt in a distributed system where
  each component is owned by a different team.

Observability: Managing multiple applications brings additional challenges in collecting and
  using the system events and messages, including logs, traces, and metrics. Developers need
  to make sure all such signals are collected for all applications and are available for analysis,
  including all necessary contextual information to debug any issues and locate the root cause
  of the issue among the target services.

Possible duplication, overlapping functionality: In a highly distributed development environment,
  it is not uncommon to have multiple components performing similar roles in the system. It is
  important to set clear boundaries within the system and decide in advance which particular roles
  the components are assigned.

Ownership and accountability: Ownership becomes a major aspect of the development process
  when there are many different teams maintaining and developing independent components.
  It is crucial to define clear ownership contracts to address the development requests, security
  and support issues, and all other types of maintenance work.

  

In general, service discovery addresses multiple problems, as follows:
  • How to discover the instance(s) of a particular service
  • How to add and remove instances of service in a discoverable environment
  • How to handle the issue when instances become unresponsive


For the applications, there are two ways of interacting with the registry:

• Client-side service discovery: Access the registry directly from the application using a registry client.

• Server-side service discovery: Access the registry indirectly via a load balancer, a special server
  that forwards requests to available instances.


-- Service health monitoring: 
   The registry keeps the information about the instances up to date either via a pull or a push model:
    • Pull model: The service registry periodically performs a health check for each known instance.
    • Push model: The application renews its status by contacting the registry.



-- Best practices for serialization
   •• Keeping your schema backward compatible: Avoid any changes in your data schema that
        would break any existing callers. Such changes include modifications (renaming or removal)
        of field names and types.
        
   •• Ensuring that data schemas are kept in sync between clients and servers: For serialization
        formats with explicit schema definitions, such as Apache Thrift, Protocol Buffers, and Apache
        Avro, you should keep clients and servers in sync with the latest schema versions.

   •• Documenting implicit details: Let the callers know any implicit details related to your data
        schema. For example, if your API does not allow an empty value of a certain field of a structure,
        include this in the comments in the schema file.

   •• Using built-in structures for representing time whenever possible: Protocol Buffers and
        some other serialization protocols provide built-in types for timestamps and durations. Taking
        Protocol Buffers as an example, having a int timestamp filed would be considered a bad
        practice. The right approach would be to use google.protobuf.Timestamp.
        Using consistent naming: Opt for using consistent naming in your schema files, similarly to your code.

   •• Following the official style guide: Get familiar with the official style guide if you are using
        a schema definition language, such as Thrift or Protocol Buffers.    


-- it’s not recommended to use the generated structures across the application
   code base. There are multiple reasons for this, which are listed as follows:
   
•• Unnecessary coupling between the application and serialization format: If you ever want to
    switch from one serialization format to another (for example, from Thrift to Protocol Buffers),
    and all your application code base uses generated structures for the previous serialization
    format, you would need to rewrite not only the serialization code but the entire application.

••Generated code structure could vary between different versions: While the field naming and
    high-level structure of the generated structures are generally stable between different versions of
    code generation tooling, the internal functions and structure of the generated code could vary
    from version to version. If any part of your application uses some generated functions that get
    changed, your application could break unexpectedly during a version update of a code generator.

••Generated code is often harder to use: In formats such as Protocol Buffers, all fields are always
    optional. In generated code, this results in lots of fields that can have nil values. For an application
    developer, this means doing more nil checks across all applications to prevent possible panics.



• Transaction support: Many databases support transactions – types of data changes – that have
   the following properties, abbreviated as ACID:
   --  Atomicity: A change either happens entirely or does not happen at all
   --  Consistency: A change brings a database from one valid state to another
   --  Isolation: Concurrent changes get executed as they were executed sequentially
   --  Durability: All changes get persisted
